Julien Sanseverino and Vishal Mehta


Foul Balls at MLB games and Where the Fastest Hit Foul balls Land


In order to create a  visualization that portrays the fastest hit ball from each major zone in a baseball stadium, we used the data on a public Github repository created by researchers that attended different baseball games and recorded where foul balls landed. Using R studio to code a graph, we used various for-loops, functions, and conditionals to portray our findings. We started by organizing the data we wanted to portray by removing all "NA" values from the "exit_velocity" column, where an exit velocity was not recorded for a foul ball. We then created a new data frame to store the fastest exit velocity for each of the zones, which was 8 columns and 7 rows. The new data frame was given the same column names as the original data set using the "colnames" function. To create the actual function to assign an exit velocity to a specific zone and replace that value if the next number in the data set was greater, we created two empty vectors to fill (with 8 zero placeholders). A function was then created using "function" which passed the "current.highest" value for each "row.index" or zone, and a conditional was made so that if the new value was larger than the previous stored value for that zone, the new value was replaced in the "current highest" vector. The function was saved as "baseball-2", which was then used to visualize the code. A for-loop was used in the graph that replaces the rows in the new data frame (without NA values) and sets it equal to the used zone represented by "i" for the original baseball data set. We also needed to convert the used_zone column values to numeric data because they were originally character data. Lastly a graph was made using the "plot function" and the names of the columns in the new data frame (Exit Velocities VS Zone foul ball landed in). 


https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/we-watched-906-foul-balls-to-find-out-where-the-most-dangerous-ones-land/
